in some languages like C++ or Python you
can redefine that how an operator works
in the context of specific classes so
for example you could say that when it
comes to dogs greater than compares the
size of the dogs now in Java we don't
have that capability so instead we're
gonna turn to interface inheritance to
help us out so what we can do is create
an interface that guarantees that our
class has a comparison method and
they'll have the dog class implement
this interface now of course this
requires that the we change something
about the dog class and we'll talk about
how this isn't a big practical problem
in the real world later but basically in
this way we're specifying to the world
indeed anything that is what we'll call
an are comparable can be compared to
other items okay so in this case we'll
create an interface called our
comparable and more specifically it will
have a compare to method that takes any
object and it returns something that
tells us whether or not this item is
bigger or smaller than the object passed
and then we'll have dog implement this
interface and then ultimately what our
max function will now do is instead of
taking an array of objects and returning
an object it'll take an array of our
comparables and it will return and are
comparable okay so it's actually just
jump in and try and write this thing
this is the code that we had in our
lecture slides and we can see here that
this is not compiling it is unhappy so
let's make a new interface just as I
said
so interface will call this thing are
comparable and in this interface we're
gonna set the specification up well
actually first let's look through the in
function public int compare to object oh
okay we could have made it a boolean but
I'm gonna make it an ant to reflect what
is common practice with real Java code
and so what this function is going to do
is return minus 1 if this is less than
Oh return 0 if this equals oh and
finally will return 1 if this is greater
than oh okay where oh is the other
object and actually we don't really need
the description of this class this is
good enough for our purposes
and
lecture so that we created this power
comparable interface we can go to the
dog class and we could say implements
are comparable and so naturally in order
to implement are comparable we need to
have this method so let's do that so we
want to compare to other objects okay so
this returns -1 if this dog is less than
the dog pointed at by oh okay and so
forth you know the rest zero if they're
equal greater than one if it's bigger so
when we write this function we need to
somehow compare the size of us to the
other dog and so we might try and do
something like if this dot size is less
than ODOT size return -1 else if this
dot size equal equals o dot size return
zero and then we can do finally return
plus 1 or just 1 however of course there
is no size symbol in the object class
right so there's no size in an object so
we need to first cast that's what we'll
do is we'll say dog utter dog equals dog
oh so we're comparing ourselves to
another dog I took this from I was in I
was on Big Island in Hawaii awhile back
and there was a guy who rinsed kayaks
near a cane Kealakekua and he is named a
who and Kai and so I forget if the guy I
think the guys named Kai and the dog's
name a who and he had another dog
running around I said what's that dog's
name and he just goes daughter dog
so anyway an honor of the other dog we
have cast the dog as follows so in the
case we'll say uh de dog and other dog
and then gives us a compare to method
okay
now finally we can go to maximizer and
we can say instead of an array of
objects will have are comparable instead
of a returning an object or a turn and
are comparable oops
okay and instead of doing greater than
we'll do that same thing we did in an
earlier lecture when we were comparing
strings and say let's set aside the
result of the comparison so in this case
items i dot compare two items max x and
then we'll make a decision based on call
so if comp is greater than zero that
means this item is bigger than the
currently largest Max Dex will get say
equal to I so now let's try running this
see what happens we get our dummy CIO's
says Clark so we've grabbed the largest
an ideal world route I'd some kind of
tests but it's a lecture and I want to
change one little thing before we move
on which is to note that this code is a
little long and there's a common trick
that will help explain to you why this
strange interface exists so instead of
saying if this dot size less another dog
size or turn minus one and so forth we
can just do return this dot sized - uh
de dog dot size and we're gonna modify
our our comparable interface a little
bit to say returns negative number if
this is less than zero turn zero if
they're equal and returns a positive
number if this is greater than hope so
in effect what we can do from now on is
just return in this case the difference
between the sizes so say my size is two
and utter dogs is five then I'll return
minus three meaning I'm smaller so this
is a really common trick in comparisons
and so we'll say here returns negative
number okay just worth seeing let's
double check make sure everything worked
once more okay it's still working
good
so let's reflect a little we created an
interface called our comparable we made
it so that dog actually implements our
comparable and then we changed our
maximize or our max function to take
advantage so this interface here our
specification right we always when we
think about what the actual interface
was the thing that we're inheriting was
that it returns a negative number if
this was less an object a positive
number if this is greater than the other
object and zero if they're equal and one
tiny little thing you might have noticed
I don't know maybe you didn't is that in
our comparable interface we have here
object could this have been our
comparable sure won't change anything
about how the code functions would work
just as well so there's no meaningful
difference between those two so
ultimately what our code ended up
looking like was this and the only last
thing to mention of course is that if we
tried to actually compare a dog to a cat
or a horse it would fail because well if
you try and cast it as a dog then that's
not gonna work so well okay so this
approach well it does work suffers from
the danger that a programmer could
accidentally try and compute and be
different or the try and compare the
size of two different things that
weren't the same class and that could
cause some trouble here okay but we'll
see how to fix that in a little bit okay
so what are the benefits of this
approach well it means now we've finally
achieved our dream right if we look at
our code this maximizer function will
work on anything that isn't our
comparable which is lovely so we don't
need some kind of special max function
and dog all we need is that dogs are
comparable and so now our code we could
in principle get have a function that
gets any kind of items from a file this
could be a file of horses cats dogs fish
potatoes s lists a list to knows as long
as those things implement it are
comparable and the get items function
knows how to somehow read them from the
file then this maximize their classes
max function will be able to give the
largest which is quite nice so what
we'll do next is make sure all that
syntax works but I'll move on to the
next video to make sure you have a
chance to pause and digest we'll come
back to this quiz in the next video